So now we've spoken a little bit about the serifs
I'm going to move on to the san serifs which of course is differentiated from the serifs by not having
these tiny little feet or decorative elements along the central beams and the top bars etc.
Now san serifs are of course slightly more modern than the serifs but similar to the serifs,
they are also subdivided into four families with Grotesque being the oldest.
So this is your Franklin Gothic,
this is your news Gothic.
Then as we go into the future you've got the neo-grotesque
so this is Helvetica,
this is Arial and going even further into future
you've got the Humanist family of sun surfs and this is your Gill Sans your Tahoma your Verdana etc.
And finally you've got the Geometric fonts for example Futura.
Now the way that you can tell if a typeface is Geometric is by looking at the os. And the os in a Geometric
typeface should look exactly like as if you drawn it with a protractor.
It is perfectly round. Now similar to the serifs, as you move from the older Grotesque family--
as you move from the older grotesque to the new Grotesque to the Humanist, you can see this difference
in the thickest and the thinnest parts of the font starting to get more and more exaggerated.
When you look at the Grotesque it's almost equidistant at all points and when you look at the Humanist
typefaces you start to see this variation or modulation as we call it. Now the geometric typeface is
a bit similar to the slab serif typeface. Even though it's one of the most modern typefaces in this family,
it bucks the trend and pretty much has no modulation and is equidistant at all point.